### 24.1-2
Prove Corollary 24.3
Let $G=(V,E)$ be a weighted, directed graph with source vertex $s$ and weight function $w:E \rightarrow R$, and assume that $G$ contains no negative-weight cycles that are reachable from $s$. Then, for each vertex $v\in V$ , there is a path from $s$ to $v$ if and only if BELLMAN-FORD terminates with $v.d < \infty$ when it is run on $G$.

**Solution:**
$\Rightarrow$ it's already proven by Lemma 24.2

$\Leftarrow$ If $v.d < \infty$. $v.d$ only changes under relaxation. Since $v.d$ is initialized to $\infty$, there must be some $u,u.d < \infty$ such that when relaxing $(u,v)$ $v.d=u.d+w(u,v)$. Thus Therefore $v$ is reachable.

### 24.1-3
Instead of doing exact $m$ iterations, if in any iteration no edge gets relaxed(no $v.d,v\in V$ gets updated), break the loop and algorithm returns TRUE.

```C++
bellman-ford(G,w,s):
    initialize_single_source(G,s)
    for i = 1 to |G.V| - 1:
        bool chgd = false
        for each edge (u,v) in G.E:
            if v.d > u.d + w(u,v):
                v.d = u.d + w(u,v)
                v.pi = u
                chgd = true
        if not chgd:
            return true
    for each edge (u,v) in G.E:
        if v.d > u.d + w(u,v):
            return false
    return true
```

### 24.1-4 ⭐
Modify the Bellman-Ford algorithm so that it sets $v.d=- \infty$ for all vertices $v$ for which there is a negative-weight cycle on some path from the source to $v$.

**Solution:**
Every negtive-weight cycle must contain a *witness:* a vertex $v$ that does not satisfy $v.d \le u.d + w(u,v)$ for some edge $(u,v)$. Therefore in the last iteration keep a record for every *witness*, then find every vertex reachable from $witnesses$ and assign $d=- \infty$.
It takes $\text{O}(E)$ to perform addtional dfs for all *witnesses*.

```C++
bellman-ford(G,w,s):
    initialize_single_source(G,s)
    for i = 1 to |G.V| - 1:
        bool chgd = false
        for each edge (u,v) in G.E:
            if v.d > u.d + w(u,v):
                v.d = u.d + w(u,v)
                v.pi = u
                chgd = true
        if not chgd:
            return true
    witnesses = {}
    for each edge (u,v) in G.E:
        if v.d > u.d + w(u,v):
            witnesses.insert(v)
    for each u in witnesses:
        if u.d != -∞:
            dfs(G,u,mark)
    return witnesses.empty()

dfs(G,v,visited):
    v.d = -∞
    for each u in G.Adj[v]:
        if u.d != -∞:
            dfs(G,u,visited)
```

### 24.1-5 ⭐
Let $G=(V,E)$ be a weighted, directed graph with weight function $w:E \rightarrow R$. Give an $\text{O}(|V||E|)$-time algorithm to find, for each vertex $v\in V$ , the value

$$
\delta^{*}(v)=\min_{u\in V}\delta(u,v)
$$

**Solution:**
To compute $\delta^{*}(v)$, we need to consider every shortest path that leads to $v$.

Initialize for each vertex $v\in V$, $u.d = 0$.
Change relex operation to

$$
v.d = \min\{v.d,w(u,v),u.d+w(u,v)\}.
$$


(This is equivalent to initializing 
each $v.d$ to $\min w(u,v)$ then adopt same old relax operation.)

Then If there exist some shortest path $s \stackrel{p}\leadsto v, s\in V$, we know $p$ and $\delta(s,v)$ will be accounted for while computing $\delta^{*}(v)$.

**Proof**
Let $s \leadsto u \rightarrow v, s\in V$ be any shortest path in G. If $u.d \le \delta(s,u)$ at any time prior to calling $\text{relax}(u,v)$, then $v.d \le \delta(s,v)$ at all times after the call.

$$
\begin{aligned}
v.d &\le u.d + w(u,v)\text{     lemma 24.13}\\
&\le \delta(s,u) + w(u,v)\\
&=\delta(s,v)\text{ shortest path optimal sub-structure}\\
\end{aligned}
$$

$\Rightarrow$ Since for any finite shortest path $s \leadsto v$, $s.d$ is initialized to 0, we know $v.d\le \delta(s,v)$ after $|V|-1$ iterations.

Now we show $v.d$ is upper bound for $\delta^{*}(v)$.

*Inductive hypothesis:* $v.d \ge \delta^{*}(v)$.
*Base case:* At initialization clearly $\min w(u,v) \ge \min_{u\in V}\delta(u,v)$.
*Inductive step:* relaxation of edge $(u,v)$. $v.d$ and $u.d$ satisfy upper bound before relaxation. If $v.d$ changes, we have

$$
\begin{aligned}
v.d &= u.d + w(u,v)\\
&\ge \delta^{*}(u) + w(u,v)\\
&=\min_{w\in V}\delta(w,u)+w(u,v)\\
&=\min_{w\in V}(\delta(w,u)+w(u,v))\\
&\ge \min_{w\in V}\delta(w,v)
\end{aligned}
$$

Therefore invariant is maintained.

$$
v.d\le \delta(u,v), u\in V \Rightarrow
v.d \le \min_{u\in V}\delta(u,v),\\
v.d\ge \min_{u\in V}\delta(u,v)\Rightarrow
v.d = \min_{u\in V}\delta(u,v).
$$

### 24.1-6 ⭐⭐
Suppose that a weighted, directed graph $G=(V,E)$ has a negative-weight cycle. Give an efficient algorithm to list the vertices of one such cycle. Prove that your algorithm is correct.

**Solution:**
Step 1. Choose any witness found in bellman-ford proposed in 24.1-4.
Step 2. Follow $pi$ attributes and record walked vertices in list until find a repetition vertex $u$.
Step 3. Pop and print vertices from list one by one. Printed vertices start and end with $u$.

**Claim:** Even though a witness vertex is not necessarily in a negative-wight cycle, but the $n$-edges shortest path $\pi_n(s,v)$ to any witness $v$ contains a negative-weight cycle.
**Proof:**
Since $\pi_n(s,v)$ contains $|V|$ vertices, it must contain at least one cycle $C$. $C$ has negative weight. Otherwise, remove $C$ to make path $π'(s,v)$ with fewer vertices and $w(\pi')\le w(\pi)$, contradicting witness $v$ definition $\delta_n(s,v)<\min_{0\le k\le n-1}\delta_k(s,v)$. Here $\delta_k(s,v)$ indicates shortest path covering exact $k$ edges.


