## 24.3 Dijkstra

### Complexity Analysis

Dijkstra running time Depends on the changable (queue internally *cross linked* with hash map that mapps each vertex to position in queue) minimum priority queue implementation.
Lets represent time for changable priority queue interfaces with:
B = Build_Queue(G. V)
C = Delete_Min()
D = Decrease_Key(handle, key)
, then total running time is

$$
T=B+|V|\cdot C+|E|\cdot D.
$$

With simple array, 

$$
B=|V|\\
C=|V|\\
D=1\\
T=|V|^2
$$

With binary-heap, 

$$
B=|V|\\
C=\log |V|\\
D=\log |V|\\
T=(|V|+|E|)\log |V|.
$$

It is suitble for sparse graph.

With Fibbonacci heap, 

$$
B=|V|\\
C=\log |V|\\
D= 1\\
T = |V|\log |V| + |E|.
$$

In reality we almost always know wether graph $G$ is dense or sparse, thereby choosing simple array implementation or binary-heap implementation accordingly instead of the more complex Fibbonacci heap. 

### Prove Dijkstra Correctness

It suffies to prove each popped vertx has $v.d=\delta(s, v)$.
Inductive hypothesis: Assume exist one shortest path $s\stackrel{p}\leadsto v$. Before popping $v$, $u$ is the first vertex on $p$ that is still in $Q$. Every vertex $w\in S$ has $w.d=\delta(s, w)$. $y$ is predessor of $u$ on $p$.

$$
\begin{align}
&\Rightarrow y.d=\delta(s, y)\Rightarrow \text{By convergence property}, u.d=\delta(s, u) 
\\&\Rightarrow \text{Because }v\text{ is chosen as minimum of }Q, v.d\le u.d
\\&\Rightarrow \text{nonnegtive weight indicates }\delta(s, v)\ge\delta(s, u) 
\\&\Rightarrow \text{By upper bound property }v.d\ge \delta(s, v)
\\&(1)+(2)+(3)+(4)\Rightarrow v.d\ge\delta(s, v)\ge\delta(s, u)=u.d\ge v.d
\\&\Rightarrow v.d=\delta(s, v)=u.d=\delta(s, u)
\end{align}
$$

### 24.3-4 ⭐
Professor Gaedel has written a program that he claims implements Dijkstra’s algorithm. The program produces $v.d$ and $v.\pi$ for each vertex $v\in V$ . Give an $\text{O}(V+E)$-time algorithm to check the output of the professor’s program. It should determine whether the $d$ and $\pi$ attributes match those of some shortest-paths tree. You may assume that all edge weights are nonnegative.

**Solution:**
Step 1. 
Construct the shortest path tree by $v.\pi$. Run dfs on it. If every vertex $v$ is reachable and $v.d=u.d+w(u, v), v.\pi = u$, we confirm the tree is at least a predecessor subgraph if not shortest path tree. And $v.d, v\in V$ is upper bound for $\delta(s, v)$. 

Step 2.
```C++
for each edge $(u, v)\in G. E$:

    if v.d > v.d + w(u,v):
        algorithm return false

otherwise algorithm return true

```

**Rational**
Imagine we run Dijkstra on all current vertices, except for all $v.d$ initialized with current value. Every time a vertex $v$ with minimum $v.d$ is popped. Then we try to relax all $v$'s outgoing edges. But all edges already satisfy relaxation. No edge is relaxed in the Dijkstra process and every $v.d$ stays current value. Therefore we check for every $v\in V, v.d=\delta(s,v)$.

### 24.3-5 

Assume SSSP $p = s \leadsto u \rightarrow v \leadsto t$, where $w(u,v)=0$. There is no guarantee that $u$ is popped from min-priority queue before $v$. Path-relaxation property does not apply.

### 24.3-6 ⭐
We are given a directed graph $G=(V,E)$ on which each edge $(u,v)\in E$ has an associated value $r(u,v)$, which is a real number in the range $0\le r(u,v)\le 1$ that represents the reliability of a communication channel from vertex $u$ to vertex $v$. We interpret $r(u,v)$ as the probability that the channel from $u$ to $v$ will not fail, and we assume that these probabilities are independent. Give an efficient algorithm to find the most reliable path between two given vertices.

**Solution:**
We can apply Dijkstra. Just like in SSSP case, we want to achieve maximum probability but more edges in path means smaller probability:

$$
P(\text{path }p )=\prod_{(u,v)\in p}r(u,v),
$$

which means we are safe from cycles.

Denote $v.p$ as the probability of most reliable channel between $s$ and $v$. Simply adopt RELAX operation as:
```C++
RELAX(u,v,r):
    if v.p < u.p * r(u,v):
        v.p = u.p * r(u,v)
        v.pi = u
```

At the end of algorithm, following $pi$ to source $s$ gives the most reliable channel.

### 24.3-7 ⭐
Let $G=(V,E)$ be a weighted, directed graph with positive weight function $w:E\rightarrow \{1,2,...,W\}$ for some positive integer $W$ , and assume that no two vertices have the same shortest-path weights from source vertex $s$. Now suppose that we define an unweighted, directed graph $G'=\{V\cup V',E'\}$ by replacing each edge $(u,v)\in E$ with $w(u,v)$ unit-weight edges in series. How many vertices does $G'$ have? Now suppose that we run a breadth-first search on $G'$. Show that the order in which the breadth-first search of $G'$ colors vertices in $V$ black is the same as the order in which Dijkstra’s algorithm extracts the vertices of $V$ from the priority queue when it runs on $G$.
**Solution:**

$$
|V\cup V'|=|V| + \sum_{(u, v)\in E}w(u, v)-1=|V|-|E|+\sum_{(u, v)\in E}w(u, v)
$$

Assume vertex $u, v\in V$, and $u$ is processed before $v$ in BFS on $G'$. That means $\delta(s, u) < delta(s, v)$. Then $u$ must also be popped from min priority queue before $v$. Since the ordering between any pair of vertices is same in BFS on $G'$ and Dijkstra on $G$, we proved the order in which the breadth-first search of $G'$ colors vertices in $V$ black is the same as the order in which Dijkstra's algorithm extracts the vertices of $V$ from the priority queue when it runs on 
$G$.

### 24.3-8 ⭐
Let $G=(V,E)$ be a weighted, directed graph with nonnegative weight function $w:E\rightarrow \{1,2,...,W\}$ for some nonnegative integer $W$ . Modify Dijkstra’s algorithm to compute the shortest paths from a given source vertex $s$ in $\text{O}(WV+E)$ time.
**Solution:**
Use direct access array $A$ of length $VW$ as minimum priority queue. $A$ mapps $i$ to a set of vertices with current $v.d=i$.

* Build(V): assign $s.d=0$ and every other vertex's $v.d=\infty$. Put $s$ at $A[0]$.
* Delete_Min(): Starting from position where we find last minimum $v.d$ vertex, search forward until find nonempty $A[i]$. Erase $A[i]$ from $A$ and return it.
* Decrease_Key(v, key): If vertex $v$ was in $A$, erase vertex from original position and insert into $A[key]$. Otherwise insert into $A[key]$.

*Note1:* Vertices may not be in minimum priority queue because $v.d=\infty$ until reached by other vertex.
*Note2:* priority queue memory can be improved to $\Theta(W)$ leveraging sliding window technics.

$$
B=\text{O}(1)\\
C=\text{O}(W)\\
D=\text{O}(1)\\
T=\text{O}(|V|W+|E|).
$$

### 24.3-9 ⭐
Modify your algorithm from Exercise 24.3-8 to run in $\text{O}((V+E)\log W)$ time. (Hint: How many distinct shortest-path estimates can there be in $V - S$ at any point in time?)
**Solution:**
First notice at any time in minimu priority queue, assume last popped vertex has $u.d=\delta(s,u)$, keys in queue is in range $\{\delta(s,u), ...,\delta(s,u)+W\}$. We implement $Q$ as a binary heap with maximum $W+1$ nodes. $Q$ mapps each $key$ to a set of vertices with $v.d=key$.

* Build(V): assign $s.d=0$ and every other vertex's $v.d=\infty$. Put $s$ at $Q[0]$.
* Delete_Min(): Pop any vertex from $Q[0]$.
* Decrease_Key(v, key): If vertex $v$ was in $Q$, erase vertex from original position and insert into Q node $(key,v)$. Otherwise insert into $Q$ new node $(key,v)$.

$$
B=\text{O}(1)\\
C=\text{O}(\log W)\\
D=\text{O}(\log W)\\
T=\text{O}((V+E)\log W).
$$

### 24.3-10
**Solution:**
Assume SSSP $s \rightarrow x \leadsto v$. We know the first edge $(s, x)$ on the path is the first to be relaxed. Then by convergence property, $x.d = \delta(s, x)$. We also know $(s, x)$ is the only negative weight edge on the path. Starting from $x$, by normal dijkstra proof every later vertex $v$ on the path has $v.d=\delta(s, v)$ when popped from queue.

