### 9.1-1
Show that the second smallest of $n$ elements can be found with $n + \lceil \lg n \rceil - 2$ comparisons in the worst case. ($\textit{Hint:}$ Also find the smallest element.)
**Solution:**
Find the smallest in a tournament fasion. And we know the second smallest element is one of the elements that compared with the smallest but lost. We can keep track of the information by for each element maintaining a list of elements lost to it.


### 9.1-2
Prove the lower bound of $\lceil 3n / 2 \rceil - 2$ comparisons in the worst case to find both the maximum and minimum of $n$ numbers. ($\textit{Hint:}$ Consider how many numbers are potentially either the maximum or minimum, and investigate how a comparison affects these counts.)
**Solution:**
1. First compare every two adjacent numbers $a_i,a_{i+1},i=1,3,...$ . Each compare will disqualify one number from being smallest and another from being largest. $\lceil n/2 \rceil$ comparisons leave one group of possible smallest numbers $A$ and one group possible largest $B$.
2. Now for $A$, further comparisions will invalidate one number as smallest at a time. Samewise for $B$. Together, it takes $n-2$ comparisons to find the minimum and maximum. Therefore lower bound is $\lceil 3n / 2 \rceil - 2$.

### 9.2-1
At the start of each recursive call, the $i$-th smallest element must be in $A[p..r]$, otherwise the algorithm has already returned. Therefore this call have at least one element.

### 9.2-2
How the pivot element is chosen this round is irrelevent to how much time algorithm winds out to run on any $n$ elements.

### 9.2-3
```C++
RANDOMIZED-SELECT(A,p,r,i)
    while p <= r:
        q = RANDOMIZED-PARTITION(A,p,r)
        if q == i:
            return A[q]
        else if q > i:
            r = q - 1
        else:
            p = q + 1
```

### 9.3-1
a. Divided into 7 elements per group, call the median of medians $x$. 
The number of elements larger than $x$ is at least
$$
\big(\big\lceil 
\lceil n / 7 \rceil/2 
\big\rceil
-1\big)\cdot 4=4\lceil n/14 \rceil - 4
\ge \frac{2n}{7}-4.
$$
The number of elements smaller than $x$ is at least
$$
\big\lceil 
\lceil n / 7 \rceil/2 
\big\rceil
\cdot 4-1 \ge 
\frac{2n}{7}-1.
$$
Remaining elements to recurse on is at most
$$
n-1-\min\{\frac{2n}{7}-4,\frac{2n}{7}-1\}=\frac{5n}{7}+3.
$$
$$
T(n)=\text{O}(n)+T(\lceil\frac{n}{7}\rceil)+T(\frac{5n}{7}+3).
$$
Assume $T(n)\le cn$ for $n\ge n_0$ and $T(n)=\text{O}(1)$ for $n < n_0$. Also pick constant $a$ for $\text{O}(n)$ in recurrence so that it's less than or equal to $an$ for any $n>0$.
If $n\ge 7n_0$ in recurrence before,then
$$
\begin{aligned}
T(n)&\le c\lceil\frac{n}{7}\rceil+c(\frac{5n}{7}+3) + an\\
&\le \frac{6cn}{7}+4c+an\\
&=cn-(\frac{cn}{7}-4c-an)\\
&=cn-n(\frac{c}{7}-\frac{4c}{n}-a).
\end{aligned}
$$
for $n>28$, Choose $c \ge 7a\frac{n}{n-28}$ and $T(n)\le cn$.
b.
a. Divided into 7 elements per group, call the median of medians $x$. 
The number of elements larger than $x$ is at least
$$
\big(\big\lceil 
\lceil n / 3 \rceil/2 
\big\rceil
-1\big)\cdot 2\ge \frac{n}{3}-2.
$$
The number of elements smaller than $x$ is at least
$$
\big\lceil 
\lceil n / 3 \rceil/2 
\big\rceil
\cdot 2-1 \ge 
\frac{n}{3}-1.
$$
Remaining elements to recurse on is at most $\frac{2n}{3}-3$.
$$
T(n)=\text{O}(n)+T(\lceil\frac{n}{3}\rceil)+T(\frac{2n}{3}-3).
$$
And we already know its not going to be linear time.

### 9.3-3
By leveraging finding median procedure in quick-sort, choose the exact median as pivot. The recurrence will be
$$
T(n) = 2T(n/2)+\text{O}(n).
$$

### 9.3-4
At the end of procedure find_ith_smallest/SELECT, input array is already partitioned into elements smaller than or equal to $i$-th smallest $x$, and elements bigger than or equal to. Intuitively thinking, algorithm cannot determine the $i$-th element if it doesn't know the relative order between any other element and $x$.

### 9.3-5
Proposed Algorithm:
Step 1. Use black-box subroutine on array $A[p...r]$ and get median $A[q]$.
Step 2. Partition $A[p...r]$ into into two halves pivoting on $A[q]$.
Step 3. Decide which subarray we want to recurse on:
- if $i==\lfloor (p+r)/ 2 \rfloor$ return $A[q]$,
- else if $i < \lfloor (p+r)/ 2 \rfloor$ $r = q-1$,
- else $p=q+1$.

Step 4. Repeat Step 1 until $p>r$.

### 9.3-7
Describe an $O(n)$-time algorithm that, given a set $S$ of $n$ distinct numbers and a positive integer $k \le n$, determines the $k$ numbers in $S$ that are closest to the median of $S$.

**Solution:**
1. Subtract original array by the median number $x$.
2. find $k$-th smallest $y$.
3. find the $k$ smallest by comparing each element to $y$.

### 9.3-8
 Let $X[1..n]$ and $Y[1..n]$ be two arrays, each containing $n$ numbers already in sorted order. Give an $O(\lg n)$-time algorithm to find the median of all $2n$ elements in arrays $X$ and $Y$.
Without loss of generality, assume $n$ is a power of $2$.

**Solution:**
Proposed Algorithm:
    Step 1. Without loss of generality, assume the median of $X$ is less than or equal to the median of $Y$, then
$$
X[1..\lceil \frac{n}{2}\rceil-1]\le 
X[\lceil \frac{n}{2}\rceil] \le 
Y[\lceil \frac{n}{2}\rceil] \le
Y[\lceil \frac{n}{2}\rceil+1..n],
$$

which means $X[1..\lceil \frac{n}{2}\rceil-1]$ and $Y[\lceil \frac{n}{2}\rceil+1..n]$ must not be the median of all $2n$ elements. Get rid of them and the problem becomes finding the $\lceil \frac{n+1}{2}\rceil$-th element in reduced sets $X[\lceil \frac{n}{2}\rceil..n]$ and $Y[1..\lceil \frac{n}{2}\rceil]$. That is, the problem is reduced to finding the median in $X[\lceil \frac{n}{2}\rceil..n]$ and $Y[1..\lceil \frac{n}{2}\rceil]$.

Step 2. Repeat Step 1 until there is only one element left in $X$ and in $Y$ and return the smaller one; or there is only one element left in $X$ or in $Y$ and return that.

### 9.3-9
The problem can be generalized to $d$ dimentions. Given a set $P$ of $n$ $d$-dimentional vectors $\mathbf{p}_i$, the L1 norm minimizer will always be the median(s) defined by
$$
\argmin_{\mathbf{p}} \sum_{i=1}^{n} ||\mathbf{p}-\mathbf{p}_i||_1.
$$
Taking derivative:
$$
\begin{aligned}
\frac{\mathrm{d} \sum_{i=1}^{n} ||\mathbf{p}-\mathbf{p}_i||_1}{\mathrm{d}\mathbf{p} }
&=\mathbf{0}
\\
\sum_{i=1}^{n}\mathrm{sign}(\mathbf{p}-\mathbf{p}_i)&=\mathbf{0}
\\
\mathbf{p}&=\mathrm{median}\{\mathbf p_1,\mathbf p_2,...,\mathbf p_n\}
\end{aligned}
$$