### articulation Points, bridges, and biconnected Components

**a.** Prove that the root of $G_\pi$ is an articulation point of $G$ if and only if it has at least two children in $G_\pi$.

$\Rightarrow$ If the root of dfs tree $root$ only has one subtree, because $G$ is connected undirected graph, after removing $root$ every vertex can still reach each other. Therefore $root$ is not articulation point. If $root$ does not have any child, then it is the sole vertex in $G$. Therefore removing $root$ won't increase the number of components in graph. By proof of contradiction, if the root of $G_\pi$ is an articulation point, it has at least two children in dfs tree.

$\Leftarrow$ If $root$ has at least two subtrees $L$ and $R$. Then after removing $root$, $\forall u\in L \not \leadsto \forall v \in R$ and vice versa. Otherwise they would have been in the same subtree. Therefore $root$ is an articulation point.

**b.** Let $v$ be a nonroot vertex of $G_\pi$. Prove that $v$ is an articulation point of $G$ if and only if $v$ has a child $s$ such that there is no back edge from $s$ or any descendant of $s$ to a proper ancestor of $v$.

$\Rightarrow$ If $v$ does not have any child, then removing a leaf node in dfs tree won't affect mutual reaching of others nodes since they can always go to root and each another. If for any child $s$ of $v$, there exist some back edge from $s$ or its descendant to ancestor of $v$. Assume the back edge is $(t,u)$. Then any path that used to be $x \leadsto v \leadsto y$ where $y$ is descedant of $v$ can instead walk the alternative path $x \leadsto u \leadsto u \leadsto y$. Removing $v$ won't affect reachability of any vertex. By proof of contradiction, if nonroot $v$ is an articulation point, $v$ must have a child $s$ such that no back edge from $s$ or its descendant leads to ancestor of $v$.

$\Leftarrow$ If nonroot vertex $v$ have a child $s$ such that no back edge from $s$ or its descendant leads to ancestor of $v$. It means the removing of edge $(v,s)$ will cut the graph into two components: the one with nodes in dfs subtree rooted at $s$, and the one with other vertices. Therefore removing $v$ will cut graph into at least two components. $v$ is an articulation point.

**c.** Let

$$
v.low = \min
\begin{cases}
v.d, \\\\
w.d:(u,w) \text{ is a back edge for some descendant } u \text{ of } v.
\end{cases}
$$

Show how to computer $v.low$ for all vertices $v \in V$ in $O(E)$ time.

$v.low$ represents the earliest vertex of discovery time reachable from $v$'s descendants.


$$
v.low=\min\{v.d,w.d,u.low|u \in\text{children}(v), w \in G.Adj[u]\}
$$

Because $v.low$ can be viewed as subtree property since it only relies on the info of children, it can be computed in the process of dfs.

**d.** Show how to compute all articulation points in $O(E)$ time.

Because undirected graph only has tree edges and back edges and the graph is connected, meaning the interval of $[v.d,v.f]$ between any pair of vertices fully overlapps. Therefore any vertex $u$ with $u.d<v.d$ must be ancestor of $v$.

```C++
time = 0
articulation points set S={}
dfs(G, v):
    v.d = time
    v.low = v.d
    for u in G.Adj[v]:
        if u == v.pi:
            continue
        if u.d > 0:
            v.low = min(v.low, u.d)
        else:
            u.pi = v
            time = time + 1
            low = dfs(G, u)
            v.low = min(v.low, low)
            if low >= v.d
                S.add(v)
    return v.low
```

**e.** Prove that an edge of $G$ is a bridge if and only if it does not lie on any simple cycle of $G$.

$\Rightarrow$ If an edge $(u,v)$ lies on a  cycle, any path that used to pass through $(u,v)$ can instead walk the other half of circle. Therefore removing $(u,v)$ won't add to number of components of graph. By proof of contradiction, if an edge of $G$ is a bridge then it does not lie on any cycle of $G$.

$\Leftarrow$ If an edge of $G$ $(u,v) does not lie on any simple cycle of $G$. There is only one way to go from endpoint $u$ to $v$. After removing $(u,v)$ there is no way for $u$ to reach $v$ and vice versa. Therefore $(u,v)$ is a bridge of graph.

**f.** Show how to compute all the bridges of $G$ in $O(E)$ time.

Suppose for edge $(u,v)$, vertex $u$ is visited first. $(u,v)$ is a bridge of graph if and only if 

$$
v.low > u.d,
$$

where

$$
v.low = \min
\begin{cases}
v.d, \\\\
w.d:(x,w) \text{ is a back edge from } x\in\{\text{descedant(v),v\}} \text{ to } w \in \text{ancestor}(v).
\end{cases}
$$

```C++
time = 0
bridge set S={}
dfs(G, v):
    v.d = time
    v.low = v.d
    for u in G.Adj[v]:
        if u == v.pi:
            continue
        if u.d > 0:
            v.low = min(v.low, u.d)
        else
            u.pi = v
            time = time + 1
            low = dfs(G, u)
            v.low = min(v.low, low)
            if low > v.d:
                S.add((v,u))
    return v.low
```

**g.** Prove that the biconnected components of $G$ partition the nonbridge edges of $G$.

?? Removing all bridges leaves the graph with multiple components. But there components may still contain articulation points therefore not be biconnected compoenents.

**h.** Give an $O(E)$-time algorithm to label each edge $e$ of $G$ with a positive integer $e.bcc$ such that $e.bcc = e'.bcc$ if and only if $e$ and $e'$ are in the same biconnected component.

1. Remove all bridges and articulation points of graph.
2. Do dfs forest on left biconnected components. Label each dfs tree in forest with distinct $bcc$.
