### 22.2-7 ⭐
**Solution:**
Start with any node $s$, do BFS(DFS) to traverse each node and assign colors "bad" and "good", no two adjacent nodes can have same color. After one traversal, examine each edge, if it connects two vertices with same coloring. If Any edge connecting two same coloring nodes, the graph is not bipartite.
Rational:
Assume in this traversal, two adjacent nodes $u$ and $v$ have same color and violate the rule. Their distance from source $s$ must be some $|u.d-v.d|=2k, k\ge 0$. If we were to fix them and assign them different colors. $s.color$ derived from them would be conflicting. Therefore no other traversal of this graph can lead to successful biparrition.

### 22.2-8 ⭐⭐
**Solution:**
There is exactly one path between any two vertices in tree. That is through lowest common ancestor. See LeetCode #543. #310

Run BFS from any node $s$, Let $u$ be the furrest node. Run BFS from $u$ and let $v$ be the furrest node. $d(u,v)$ is diameter of the tree.

**Correctness:**
Let $a,b$ be any two nodes such that $d(a,b)$ is diameter of the tree. There is a unique path from $a$ to $b$. Let $t$ be the first node on that path discovered by BFS(closest node on that path from $s$).
If the path $p_1$ from $s$ to $u$ and path $p_2$ from $a$ to $b$ do not share edges, then the path from $t$ to $u$ includes $s$(Because $t\to s + s\to a$ form a unique path). So

$$
d(t,b) \ge d(t,u) \ge d(s,u) \ge d(s,b) \ge d(t,b)
\\\Rightarrow d(s,t)=0,s == t
$$

Since $d(u,v)\ge d(u,a) = d(u,t)+d(t,a) = d(a,b)\ge d(u,v)$, $d(u,v)=d(a,b)$.

Otherwise if $p_1$ and $p_2$ do share edges, $t$ is on $p_1$.

Since both $t\to a $ and $t \to u$ are part of longest path, $d(t,a)=d(t,u)$. 

$$
d(u,v)\ge d(u,b) = d(u,t) + d(t,b) = d(a,b) \ge d(u,v)
$$

Therefore $d(u,v)=d(a,b)$ is diameter of tree.