### 22.3-4
Assigning vertex color Grey or Black is the same because the only role they will be playing later is in line 5 to help determin if a vertex $v$ has color White(has been discovered) or not. Since Grey and Black give the same result, we can skip assigning vertex color Black when finish visiting it.

### 22.3-6
View each undirected edge $e$ as the combination of two directed edges $e_1=(u,v),e_2=(v,u)$. Determine $e$'s type by taking the result of $e_1$ and $e_2$ with higher priority.

WLOG, assume $u.d<v.d$, then $v$ is descendant of $u$.
Case 1: Explore direction $e_1$ first. Clearly $e_1$ is Tree edge. Later when trying to visit $e$ from other direction $e_2$, it will be Back edge and have lower prio. 
Case 2: Explore direction $e_2$ first. $e_2$ is Back edge. Later $e_1$ is Front edge. $e_1$ will take precedence over $e_2$ and $e$ should be Back edge.

In other words, discovering edge from descendant $v$ first will mark the edge as "B" and override later "F" from ancestor "u". While exploring edge from ancestor $u$ point first will pin $e$ as "Tree" without overwritten by classification "B" from $v$ point.

### 22.3-13
If G contains a path from $u$ to $v$, $u$ must come before $v$ in topological sort. If G contains more than one simple path from $u$ to $v$ then certain 0-indegree ancestor $x$ of $u$(and $v$) have more than one simple path to reach $v$. We add a new field $ans0$ for each vertex to keep a list of its 0-indegree ancestors.
1. Count indegrees for each vertex. It takes time $\text{O}(V+E)$.
2. For each 0-indegree vertex $u$, perform dfs so each vertex know if $u$ is ancestor and add in $ans0$. It takes the number of 0-indegree vertices times $\text{O}(V+E)$, thus bounded by $\text{O}(|V||E|)$.
3. Perform dfs one more time. Whenever trying to touch a Black vertex, if it has common 0-indegree ancestors as current vertex, $G$ is not singly connected.
$\Rarr$: If there is more than one path from $x$ to $v$. WLOG, assume $a$, $b$ are the two different parents of $v$ on two paths. $a$, $b$ both could be $x$ itself. The two different edges $(a,x)$ and $(b,x)$ must be explored in dfs process, therefore the situation that Black vertex $v$ has common 0-indegree ancestors as current vertex will certainly happen. 