An **_Euler tour_** of a strongly connected, directed graph $G = (V, E)$ is a cycle that traverses each edge of $G$ exactly once, although it may visit a vertex more than once.

**a.** Show that $G$ has an Euler tour if and only if $\text{in-degree}(v) = \text{out-degree}(v)$ for each vertex $v \in V$.

$\Rightarrow$ If $\exists v \in V,\text{in-degree}(v) \neq \text{out-degree}(v)$. 

Case 1: The tour starts with $v$ and $\text{in-degree}(v) > \text{out-degree}(v)$. To use up all incident edges of $v$, the tour will be going out of $v$, then back to $v$, then out, then in... Eventually tour will be at $v$ with no left out degrees but still indegrees not used up.

Case 2: The tour starts with $v$ and $\text{in-degree}(v) < \text{out-degree}(v)$. Similarly the tour will go out, then in , then out, then in, ... and in the end no way to go back to $v$.

Case 3: The tour starts not with $v$ and $\text{in-degree}(v) > \text{out-degree}(v)$. The tour will go in $v$ first at some point. Eventually stuck at $v$.

Case 4: The tour starts not with $v$ and $\text{in-degree}(v) < \text{out-degree}(v)$. out-degrees(v) can not be used up.

In all cases there will be no euler tour. By proof of contradiction, If $G$ has an Euler then $\text{in-degree}(v) = \text{out-degree}(v)$ for all vertices.

$\Leftarrow$ Start walking from a vertex $v_1$ without repeating any edges, and observe that by parity condition, the walk can only get stuck at $v_1$, so we get one cycle. If we still have more edges left to hit, connectivity implies that some vertex $v_2$ on our current walk is adjacent to an unused edge, so start the process again from $v_2$. Splice the two walks together at $v_2$. Repeat till all edges used.

**b.** Describe an $O(E)$-time algorithm to find an Euler tour of $G$ if one exists. ($\textit{Hint:}$ Merge edge-disjoint cycles.)

The proof of Euler tour existence in (a.) already provides a solution to find Euler tour.

```C++
euler_tour(G):
    tour = []
    while size(tour) < size(G.E):
        s = -1
        for i = 1 to size(tour):
            u = tour[i]
            if not G.Adj[u].empty():
                s = i
                break
        c = []
        dfs(G, tour[i], c)
        tour.insert(tour.begin() + s - 1, c.begin(), c.end())

dfs(G, v, c):
    c.push_back(v)
    for u in G.Adj[v]:
        G.Adj[v].remove(u)
        dfs(G, u, c)        
```