### 22.4-2 ⭐
Give a linear-time algorithm that takes as input a directed acyclic graph $G=(V,E)$ and two vertices $s$ and $t$, and returns the number of simple paths from $s$ to $t$ in $G$. For example, the directed acyclic graph of Figure 22.8 contains exactly four simple paths from vertex $p$ to vertex $v$: pov, poryv, posryv, and psryv. (Your algorithm needs only to count the simple paths, not list them.)
**Solution:**
```C++ 
countPaths(G,s,t):
    topological sort graph G
    s.p = 1, v.p = 0, v != s
    for each verte v = s to t:
        if v.p != 0:
            for each vertex u in Adj[v]:
                u.p = u.p + v.p
    return t.p
```

### 22.4-3
Give an algorithm that determines whether or not a given undirected graph $G=(V,E)$ contains a cycle. Your algorithm should run in $\text{O}(V)$ time, independent of $|E|$.
**Solution:**
1. If the graph has $|E|\ge |V|$, then it must contain loops.
2. Else for each edge mark the two end vertices visited. If in the end $|E|$ is greater than or equal to the number of visited vertices, the graph contains loop. Otherwise graph is acyclic.

### 22.4-5
Another way to perform topological sorting on a directed acyclic graph $G=(V,E)$ is to repeatedly find a vertex of in-degree 0, output it, and remove it and all of its outgoing edges from the graph. Explain how to implement this idea so that it runs in time $\text{O}(V+E)$. What happens to this algorithm if G has cycles?
**Solution:**
We will maintain a hashmap $H$ to record indegrees of every vertex. We also keep a set $S$ of all vertices with indegrees 0.

To implement topological sort:
1. we traverse $G.adj$ to count indegrees for each vertex. It takes $\text{O}(V+E)$ to count indegrees. Then put in $S$ those with indegrees 0.
2. while $S$ is not empty, extract one vertex $u$ from $S$, $u$ is before every left vertices in topological sort result. For each vertex $v$ in $G.adj[u]$, decrease its indegree by one: $H[v]=H[v]-1$. If $H[v]$ reaches 0, put $v$ into $S$. Aggregately, $H[v]=H[v]-1$ is executely $|E|$ times.
3. Repeat step 2 until $S$ is empty.

**Correctness**:
Graph has topological sort order if and only it does not contain cycles. For DAG, we can must find vertices with indegree 0.
**Complexity**
Algorithm takes total time $\text{O}(V+E)$.

If there is ever a cycle in $G$, at some point algorithm can't find vertices with 0 indegree in graph.