### 22.5-3
Professor Bacon claims that the algorithm for strongly connected components would be simpler if it used the original (instead of the transpose) graph in the second depth-first search and scanned the vertices in order of _increasing_ finishing times. Does this simpler algorithm always produce correct results?

**Solution:**
Assume two vertices $u,v \in G.V, u\in C_i, v \in C_j, i\neq j$. Then $f(C_i)>f(C_j)$. But in second dfs scanning the order of _increasing_ finishing times doesn't mean it will visit component $C_j$ first. Because it could be some $x\in C_i, y\in C_j, x.f<y.f$. Then while exploring $C_i$ the edges starting from $C_i$ could lead to visiting yet White vertices in $C_j$. The formed dfs tree wouldn't only include nodes in $C_i$.

### 22.5-4
Prove that for any directed graph $G$, we have $((G^\text T)^{\text{SCC}})^\text T = G^{\text{SCC}}$. That is, the transpose of the component graph of $G^\text T$ is the same as the component graph of $G$.

**Solution:**
The strongly connected components in $G$ and $G^T$ are exactly the same $\Rarr G^{SCC},(G^{T})^{SCC}$ have same vertices.

Assume two vertices $u,v \in G.V, u\in C_i, v \in C_j, i\neq j$. 
From the definition of component graph $G^{SCC}$, we know
$(v_i, v_j)\in G^{SCC}.E$. 
On the other hand, $(v,u)\in G^{T} \Rarr (v_j, v_i)\in (G^T)^{SCC}.E$.

$\Rarr (G^{SCC})^T = (G^T)^{SCC}.$

### 22.5-5
Give an $O(V + E)$-time algorithm to compute the component graph of a directed graph $G = (V, E)$. Make sure that there is at most one edge between two vertices in the component graph your algorithm produces.
**Solution:**
Run Strongly-Connected-Components algorithm, but make some modifications in second dfs process.

Step 1. call DFS($G$) to compute finishing time $u.f$ for each vertex $u$.

Step 2. compute $G^T$.

Step 3. make an empty new graph $G^{SCC}$.

Step 4. call DFS($G^T$), but in the main loop of DFS, consider the vertices in order of decreasing $u.f$. 

Step 5.1 Choose the correct starting vertex and start to visit component $C_i$. Add new vertex $v_i$ in $G^{SCC}$ to represent $C_i$. Make a direct access array $A[1..n]$ initialized to all zeros where each $A[j]$ represents if there is an edge from $v_i$ to $v_j$.

Step 5.2 For each edge $(u,v)$ that starts from $C_i$ and points to another component $C_j,j<i$, if $A[j]=0$, add a new edge $(v_i,v_j)$ to $G^{SCC}$.

Step 6. Repeat Step 4 until all vertices in $G$ visited.

### 22.5-7
A directed graph $G = (V, E)$ is semiconnected if, for all pairs of vertices $u, v \in V$, we have $u \leadsto v$ or $v \leadsto u$. Give an efficient algorithm to determine whether or not $G$ is semiconnected. Prove that your algorithm is correct, and analyze its running time.
**Solution:**
Step 1. Generate $G^{SCC}$ in $\text{O}(V+E)$.

Step 2. toplogical sort $G^{SCC}$ and ouput sequence $v_1,v_2,..,v_n$ in $\text{O}(V+E)$.

Step 3. If for all consecutive $v_i,v_{i+1}$, there exist edge $(v_i,v_{i+1})$ in $G^{SCC}$, $G$ is semiconnected. Otherwise algorithm return false. Time is $\text{O}(E)$.

**Correctness:**

$$
\forall v_i,v_{i+1},(v_i,v_{i+1}) \in G^{SCC}.E\\
\Rarr \forall v_i,v_j,i<j,v_i \leadsto v_j\\
\Rarr G \text{ is semiconnected}
$$

$$
\exists v_i,v_{i+1},(v_i,v_{i+1}) \notin G^{SCC}.E\\
\Rarr v_i \not\leadsto v_{i+1} \text{ and } v_{i+1} \not\leadsto v_i\\
\Rarr \lnot G \text{ is semiconnected}
$$

**Complexity:**
It takes $\text{O}(V+E)$ total time.