## 14.1 
### 14.1-3
```C++
OS_SELECT(x,i):
    while x:
        r = x.left.size + 1
        if r == i:
            return x
        else if r < i:
            i -= r
            x = x.right
        else:
            x = x.left
```
### 14.1-4
```C++
OS_KEY_RANK(T,k):
    x = T.root
    r = 0
    while k != x.key:
        if k < x.key:
            x = x.left
        else:
            r += x.left.size + 1
            x = x.right
    return r + x.left.size + 1
```
**Prove**:
Loop Invariant: r = # nodes with key samller than k in T - # nodes with key samller than k in subtree rooted with x.
* Init : r = 0, x=T.root, invariant holds.
* Each round of loop: At the end of each loop, 
    * if k < x.key, r remain the same, every node in x.right and x itself has key > k, thus # nodes with key samller in x.left == # nodes with key < k in subtree rooted with x, loop invariant remains true.
    * Otherwise k > x.key, then r is increased by x.left.size + 1 and every node in x.left and x itself has key < k, thus # nodes with key samller in x.right == # nodes with key < k in x - # nodes with key samller than k in subtree x.left - 1, invariant remains.
* Exit: when exiting loop, x.key = k, # nodes with key samller than k in subtree x = x.left.size + 1. Then r = # nodes with key samller than k in T - (x.left.size + 1), i.e. total rank # nodes with key samller than k in T = r + (x.left.size + 1).

Therefore we proved OS_KEY_RANK(T,k) is right.
### 14.1-5
OS-SELECT(T.root, OS-RANK(x)+i)
### 14.1-6
Assume nodes in tree $T$ already has attribute rank $r$. Then we just have to preserve that when chaging $T$ by inserting or deleting node $x$.
* INSERT: In each comparison with node $y$ in tree, if $x$ goes to the left subtree, rank of $y$ increases by 1. Newly added node has rank 1.
* ROTATION: When a left rotation is performed on $x$, the rank of $x.right$ will be increased by the rank of $x$. If we perform a right rotation on a node $y$, its rank will decrease by $y.left.rank$. 
* DELETE: starting from $y.parent$ up to root, if node is left child of its parent, rank of parent decreases by 1.

### 14.1-7
In the tracing down the tree part of insertion procedure, when doing comparison with node $y$, if the to-be-inserted element $x$ has smaller key, add $y.right.size+1$ to total invertions.

Or, after every INSERT of the $i^{\rm{th}}$ element, add to total inversions $i-\rm{OS\_RANK}(T,x)$.

### 14.1-8
Sort the vertices in clock-wise order, and assign a unique value to each vertex. For each chord its two vertices are $u_i,v_i$ and $u_i<v_i$. Add the vertices one by one in clock-wise order, if we meet a $u_i$, add it to the order-statistic tree, if we meet a $v_i$, we calculate how many nodes are larger than $u_i$(which is the number of intersects with chord $i$), and remove $u_i$

### 14.2-1
Store with each node two additional fields: pre, suc for node's predecessor and successor. As Tree $T$'s global property, add a pointer to tree's leftmost node $T.min$ and a pointer to rightmost node $T.max$. Then dynamic query ops MINIMUM, MAXIMUM, PREDECESSOR and SUCCESSOR can all be implmented in worst $\rm{O}(1)$ time. Here is how to maintain these fields:
```C++
INSERT(T,x):
 //normal INSERT routine
 if x == x.p.left:
    if x.p is T.min:
        T.min = x
    x.pre = x.p.pre
    x.p.pre.suc = x
    x.suc = x.p
    x.p.pre = x
else:
    if x.p is T.max:
        T.max = x
    x.suc = x.p.suc
    x.p.suc.pre = x
    x.pre = x.p
    x.p.suc = x
//RB-INSERT-FIXUP

DELETE(T, z):
    if z == T.min:
        T.min = z.suc
    else if z == T.max
        T.max = z.pre
    z.pre.suc = z.suc
    z.suc.pre = z.pre
```
### 14.2-2
bh can be maintained as subtree property whereas depth can't. A node's bh depends only on its left and right subtrees. For example, x.bh = x.right.bh + 1 if x.right is BLACK else x.bh = x.right.bh. But the depth of a node is determined by number of its ancestors. If one node gets deleted, all descendants need to be updated. Clearly not something we can do in $\log{n}$ time.

### 14.2-3
Operator being associative, we can derive:
$$
x.f = x.left.f⊗x.a⊗x.right.f
$$
After a right rotation on $x$, only two node $x$ and $x.left$ change. The f's of each can be computed in $\rm{O}(1)$ time. Samewise for a left rotation. $x$ being the left child or right child of its parent, after a rotation, traversal order doesn't change. Therefore $x_1.a⊗x_2.a⊗...⊗x_m.a$ doesn't change and has no effect on x.parent. We conclude $f$ can be updated in $\rm{O}(1)$ time.
We can adapt the binary operator to size by making it have the effect:
$$
x.a⊗y.a = \rm{toOne}(x) + \rm{toOne}(y).
$$

### 14.2-4
```C++
RB-ENUMERATE(x, a, b):
    if x.key < a:
        RB-ENUMERATE(x.right, a, b)
    else if x.key > b:
        RB-ENUMERATE(x.left, a, b)
    else:
        RB-ENUMERATE(x.left, a, b)
        print x.key
        RB-ENUMERATE(x.right, a, b)
```
It takes m times to execute "print x.key", and 
$m+\Theta(\log{n})$ time to do the if else branch instruction.

### 14.3-3
```C++
INTERVAL-SEARCH(T, i)
    x = T.root
    while x != T.nil:
        if i overlap x.int:
            if x.left == T.nil or x.left.max < i.low:
                break
        if x.left != T.nil and x.left.max >= i.low:
            x = x.left
        else: 
            x = x.right
    return x
```
**Prove**:
Loop Invariant: If T has intervals that overlap i, the one that has the minimum low endpoint will be in subtree rooted with x.
* Init : x is initialized with T.root, invariant holds.
* Each round of loop: 
    * x.int overlaps i. If x.left.max >= i.low, we know for the fact that there must be an interval i' in x.left where i'.high >= i.low and i'.low < x.int.low <= i.max. Then by letting x = x.left we maintain the loop invariant. Otherwise no interval in x.left can overlap i and all intervals in x.right has bigger low endpoints, meaning x.int is the minimum-low-endpointed interval overlapping i. So we return it.
    * If x.int doesn't overlap i, the interval with minimum low endpoint is either is in x.left or x.right. It's already proven that if T has any interval that overlaps i, subtree rooted with x will contain it. Since we always choose to go left in the case that both x.left and x.right have possible overlapping interval, loop invaraint holds.
* Exit: In the case x.int overlaps i and x is our target interval, algorithm returns it and is correct. Otherwise algorithm returns T.nil when no such overlapping interval exists.


### 14.3-4
```C++
INTERVALS-SEARCH(T, x, i)
    let list be an empty array
    if i overlaps x.int
        list.APPEND(x)
    if x.left != T.nil and x.left.max > i.low
        list = list.APPEND(INTERVALS-SEARCH(T, x.left, i))
    if x.right != T.nil and x.int.low ≤ i.high and x.right.max ≥ i.low
        list = list.APPEND(INTERVALS-SEARCH(T, x.right, i))
    return list
```

Search the overlapping intervals in an single traversal. Then worst-case search time is $\text{O}(\min(n,k\log{n}))$. The rational is search time can be compared to number of edges walked. When $k$ is small, that number is $\text{O}(k\log{n})$. But total number of edges walked is mostly $n$.

### 14.3-5
redefine the order between intervals $a$ and $b$. If $a.low<b.low$, $a$ comes before $b$ in traversal, vice versa. However if $a.low$ is equal to $b.low$, the one with less high endpoint should come before.
```C++
INTERVAL_SEARCH_EXACTLY(T,i):
    x = T.root
    while T.nil != x
        if x.int.low == i.low and x.int.high == i.high:
            return x
        else if x.int.low < i.low:
            x = x.right
        else if x.int.low > i.low:
            x = x.left
        else if x.int.high < i.high:
            x = x.right
        else:
            x = x.left
    return x
```
    
### 14.3-6
Imagin extra field "gap" for each node which records the difference between its successor and itself. For last node gap is positive infinity. Then for any subtree rooted at $x$, we keep a record $x.minGap$:
$$
    x.minGap = \min(x.left.minGap,x.right.minGap,\\\text{sucessor}(x).key-x.key)
$$
and from theorem 14.1 this property can be maintained without affecting INSERT/DELETE asymptotic time.
Now we can support op MIN-GAP in constant time.

### 14.3-7 *
Here two rectangles overlap if and only if both their up-down and left-right edges overlap.
Let $L$ be the sorted set of left coordinates of rectangles. Let $R$ be the sorted set of right coordinates of rectangles. Let $T$ be the interval tree of all rectangles' up-down bounds.
Then, we will have a pointer to $L$ and a pointer to $R$. If the pointer to $L$ is smaller, call interval search on $T$ for the up-down interval corresponding to this left hand side. If it contains something that intersects the up-down bounds of this rectangle, there is an intersection, algorithm stops.
Otherwise add this interval to $T$ and increment the pointer to $L$. If $R$ is the smaller one, remove the up-down interval that that right hand side corresponds to and increment the pointer to $R$. Since all the interval tree operations used run in time $\text{O}(\log{n})$ and we only call them at most $3n$ times, we have that the runtime is 
$\text{O}(n\log{n})$.