### 6.3-3

Show that there are at most $\lceil {\frac{n}{2^{h+1}}}\rceil$ nodes of height h in any n-element heap.

**Solution:**
Use $Num_h$ to indicate number of nodes at height $h$. Since each hight-$h$ node has parent at height $h+1$,
$$
Num_h = \lceil \frac{Num_{h-1}}{2} \rceil,\quad h\geq1
$$
Prove by induction. From 6.1-7, we know that the leaves of a heap are the nodes indexed by
$$
\lfloor n/2\rfloor+1,\lfloor n/2\rfloor+2,...,n.
$$
Thus base case $Num_0=\lceil n/2\rceil$ fulfills requirement.
Assume equation true for height $h-1$, prove it also holds for $h$:
$$
Num_h = \lceil \frac{Num_{h-1}}{2} \rceil\\
\leq 
\lceil \frac{1}{2}\times\lceil {\frac{n}{2^h}}\rceil \rceil\\
=\lceil \frac{n}{2^{h+1}}\rceil,
$$
therefore $Num_h\leq \lceil {\frac{n}{2^{h+1}}}\rceil$ holds for any $h$.

### 6.5-9
Give an $O(n\log k)$-time algorithm to merge $k$ sorted lists into one sorted list, where $n$ is the total number of elements in all the input lists. (Hint: Use a min-heap for k-way merging.)

**Solution:**
Min-Heap Q maintains the smallest element in each of $k$ sorted lists. Each time extract the min element from $Q$, delete corresponding element in list, insert new minimum of list into $Q$.
```C++
k_way_merge(lists,k):
    A = {}
    for l in lists:
        A.push_back(l.front())
    Q = build_min_heap(A)
    while not Q.empty():
        auto [key, i] = heap_extract_min(Q)
        ouput key
        l = lists.at(i)
        l.pop_front()
        if l.size() > 0:
            min_heap_insert(Q, (l.front(),i))
```
Efficiency:
It takes $\text{O}(k)$ time to initialize the heap. Then algo loops $n$ times to output all elements in all the input lists. Each iteration costs $\text{O}(\log k)$ to extract min, $\text{O}(1)$ to delete first element in list, $\text{O}(\log k)$ to insert the new smallest of list in $Q$. Total algo runs in $\text{O}(n\log k)$ time.
