a. The root is the node with smallest priority, the root divides the sets into two subsets based on the key. In each subset, the node with smallest priority is selected as the root... Thus we can uniquely determine a treap with a specific input.

b. Treap satisfies BST property. Time to search for a key is effectively the height of the tree. For the priority of all nodes, each permutation corresponds to exactly one treap, that is, all nodes forms a BST in priority, since the priority of all nodes is spontaneous, treap is, essentially, randomly built binary search tress. Therefore, the expected height of a treap is $\Theta(\log{n})$.

c. First insert a node as usual using the binary-search-tree insertion procedure. Then perform rotations on parent of the inserted node until parent no longer has larger priority.

d. Each Rotation is $\Theta(1)$, at most h rotations, therefore the expected running time is $\Theta(\log{n})$.

e. Every left rotation increase C by 1, everyright rotation increase D by 1.

f.
if $y.priority>x.priority, y.key<x.key$ and for every $z$ such that $y.key<z.key<x.key$, we have $y.priority<z.priority$.
Then $z$ s fully overlap with $y$'s right subtree, $x$ is the first node bigger than any $z$. That means traceing from $y$ up, $x$ is the lowest ancestor that has $y$ in its left subtree. Therefore $y$ is in the right spine of the left subtree of $x$.
* Idea:
Given a node $X$, what's the possible locations of its successive $n$ nodes $y_1, y_2,..,y_n$?
Going from $X$ up the tree, assume $z_1$ is the first node that has $X$ within its left subtree. And $z_2$ is the first node that has $z_1$ within its left subtree and so on.
If $n<=X.right.size$, then $y_1, y_2,..,y_n$ are all in $X$'s right subtree. 
Else if $X.right.size +1+z_1.right.size >n > X.right.size$, then some $y$ s will be located in $z$ and $z$'s right subtree. 
Else If $X.right.size +1+z_1.right.size +1+z_2.size>n > X.right.size +1+z_1.right.size$, then $y$ s will overlap $X.right, y_1, y_1.right$ and also partially overlaps $y_2$ and its right subtree.
...

g.
$$
\begin{aligned}
\rm{Pr}(X_{ik}=1)&=\rm{Pr}(x\space\rm{has\space the\space smallest\space priority})*\rm{Pr}(y\space\rm{has\space the\space second smallest\space priority})\\
&=\frac{1}{k-i+1}*\frac{1}{k-i}.
\end{aligned}
$$
h.
$$
\begin{aligned}
\mathbf{E}[C]&=\mathbf{E}[\sum_{i=1}^{k-1}X_{ik}]\\
&=\sum_{i=1}^{k-1}\mathbf{E}[X_{ik}]\\
&=\sum_{i=1}^{k-1}\frac{1}{(k-i+1)*(k-i)}\\
&=1-\frac{1}{k}.
\end{aligned}
$$
i.
$$
\begin{aligned}
&=\sum_{i=k+1}^{n}\frac{1}{(i-k+1)*(i-k)}\\
&=1-\frac{1}{n-k+1}.
\end{aligned}
$$
j.

$\mathbf{E}[C+D]=\mathbf{E}[C]+\mathbf{E}[D]<2$. That is expected number of rotations performed when inserting a node into a treap is less than 2.
