# 12 Binary Search Trees
### 12.1 In-order traverse a BST
```C++
inorder_tree_walk(tree):
1    if tree:
2       inorder_tree_walk(tree.left)
3       output tree.item
4       inorder_tree_walk(tree.right)
```
* There are n times line #1 evaluates true and algorithm executes line #3; other n+1 times line #1 evaluates false. Assume line #1 takes constant amount of time c. And constant d reflects an upper bound on the time to execute the body of inorder_tree_walk(tree) exclusive of the time spent in recursive calls. Then we have
$$
T(n) = c(n+1) + dn = \Theta(n),
$$

### 12.1-5
Argue that since sorting n elements takes 
$\Omega(n\log n)$ time in the worst case in the comparison model, any comparison-based algorithm for constructing a binary search tree from an arbitrary list of n elements takes $\Omega(n\log n)$ time in the worst case.

**Solution:**
Assume, for the sake of contradiction, that we can construct the binary search tree by comparison-based algorithm using less than 
$\Omega(n\log n)$ time. Since the inorder tree walk is 
$\Theta(n)$, then we can get the sorted elements in less than $\Omega(n\log n)$ time, which contradicts the fact that sorting n elements takes $\Omega(n\log n)$ time in the worst case.

### 12.2 Querying a BST
### 12.2-7
An alternative method of performing an inorder tree walk of an n-node binary search tree finds the minimum element in the tree by calling TREE-MINIMUM and then making n−1 calls to TREE-SUCCESSOR. Prove that this algorithm runs in
Θ(n) time.

**Solution:**
- The amount of time of querying a tree can be measured with the number of edges traversed, because making x = x.right/x.left/x.parent is the basic operation.
- The number of edges in a tree is one less than the number of vertices.
- Using this procedure, just like the canonical inorder traversal procedure, we walk each edge twice. T = 2(n-1).

### 12.2-8
Prove that no matter what node we start at in a height-h binary search tree, k successive calls to TREE-SUCCESSOR take O(k+h) time.

**Solution:**
- The k nodes are not necessarily connected. Suppose k nodes take up the range [a,b]. The worst case can be that a single node c(a < c < b) as root node and range [a, predecessor(c)] deep in the left subtree of c; range [sucessor(c), b] deep in the right subtree of c. Then The distance between these discontinuous parts is 2h.Therefore the number of edges connecting the k nodes is 2h+k. Since each edge is visited twice, it takes O(k+h) time. 

### 12.3 Insertion and Deletion

### 12.3-4
Is the operation of deletion "commutative" in the sense that deleting x and then y from a binary search tree leaves the same tree as deleting y and then x? Argue why it is or give a counterexample.

**Solution:**

There are many ways to approach subtree_delete. It could be iteratively swapping x with its successor until it is leaf, like in 6.006. Or promote x's single child to replace x once we find out x has only child, like in CLRS.
In the case of CLRS solution, the answer is no and here is the counterexample:
- Delete A first, then delete B:
```
  A        C        C
 / \      / \        \
B   D    B   D        D
   /
  C
```
- Delete B first, then delete A:
```
  A        A        D
 / \        \      /
B   D        D    C
   /        /
  C        C
```
### A third way to implment subtree_delete

The potential flaw of this approach is that the deleted node may not be the passed-in to-be-deleted node. And in the circumstance that other parts of the program refer to nodes in the tree, it may incur errors.
```C++
subtree_delete(subtree, x):
    if is_leaf(x):
        detach(x)
    else if has_onlyChild(x):
        replace_with_child(x)
    else:
        y = successor(x)
        swap(x.item, y.item)
        replace_with_child(y)

detach(x):
    p = x.parent
    if p:
        if is_left_child(p, x):
            p.left = nullptr
        else:
            p.right = nullptr
        x.parent = nullptr
    if not p and not x.left and not x.right:
        x = nullptr
        
child(x):
    if x.left:
        return x.left
    else:
        return x.right

replace_with_child(x):
    p = x.parent
    singleChild = child(x)
    if p:
        if is_left_child(p, x):
            p.left = singleChild
        else:
            p.right = singleChild
    singleChild.parent = p

is_left_child(p, x):
    if p and x == p.left:
        return true
    else:
        return false
```
or,
```C++
subtree_delete(x):
    if is_leaf(x):
        detach(x)
        return
    if x.left:
        y = predecessor(x)
    else:
        y = successor(x)
    swap(x.item, y.item)
    replace_with_cihld(y)    
```

