## Multiple Room Scheduling/Interval partitioning ⭐
・Lecture $j$ starts at $s_j$ and finishes at $f_j$.
・Goal: find minimum number of classrooms to schedule all lectures so that no two lectures occur at the same time in the same room.

**Definition:** depth $d$ of to be scheduled lectures is the maximum number of lectures overlapping at some same point.
**Theorem:** Number of classrooms needed is at least the depth of the to be scheduled.
**Proof:** Since no two lectures occur at the same time in the same room. And at some point $d$ lectures occur at the same time. There must be at least $d$ classrooms to schedule all.

**Propose Greedy Algorithm:**
1. Sort lectures by starting time. Initialize $NumClassRoom=0$, list of busy class rooms $B$ empty.
2. For each lecture $j$. Inpect $B$ and pop out all lectures already finished: $f_i<s_j$. If there is free class room: $NumClassRoom-|B|>0$, schedule $j$ in any free room and add into $B$. Otherwise $NumClassRoom$ increase by one, schedule $j$ in the new room.
3. Return $NumClassRoom$

**Prove Optimal:**
Prove by loop invariant: At any time before $s_j$, maximum $NumClassRoom$ lectures happen at the same time.
Base case: trivially true before $s_1$.
Induction: Assume invariant true for $j=1$ to $k$. At time $s_{k+1}$, 
- Either no free room, it means $NumClassRoom$ lectures are happening at $s_{k+1}$ other than lecture $k+1$. Therefore total $NumClassRoom+1$ lectures happen at the same time. After $s_{k+1}$ and before the start time of next lecture, number of concurrent lectures can not increase. By increase $NumClassRoom$ by one, invariant remains true for $j=1$ to $k+1$.
- Otherwise schedule $k+1$ into any room. No more than $NumClassRoom$ lectures are happening at $s_{k+1}$. Therefore maximum $NumClassRoom$ lectures are happening before $s_{k+2}$. Invariant holds.

Because at the end of algorithm, by definition $NumClassRoom$ is depth $d$ of lectures. Algorithm achieves lowerbound $d$ and is optimal.