## Scheduling to Minimize Average Complete Time

Can also to seen as to minimize delay.
a. 
**Proposed Greedy Algorithm:**
1. sort tasks by duration $p_i$.
2. Schedule tasks in increasing duration order.

**Proof:**
Let $a_1,a_2,...,a_n$ be an optimal scheduling that has minimum total completion time $T$. Let $d_1,d_2,...,d_n$ be corresponding task durations. Define a inversion as $i<j,d_i>d_j$. 
- Assume there are some inversions in optimal scheduling. Then there must be adjacent inversion pairs. Swap an adjacent inversion pair $a_i,a_j, i<j$, completion time of all other tasks remain the same.

$$
c_i'+c_j'
\\
=c_j+c_j'
\\
<c_j+c_i
(\text{because }p_i>p_j)
$$

Then we get new total completion time $T'<T$. By contradiction there is no inversion in an optimal scheduling: $d_1\le d_2,...,\le d_n$, which is exactly the definition of a duration-first greedy scheduling.


b.
**Proposed Greedy Algorithm:**
At any time always choose task with least remaining time.

Used data structures:
1. An min-priority-queue $Q$ of ready-to-schedule tasks. Priority is remaining time of each task.
2. Current scheduled task $x$, its remaing time before scheduling this time $x.rem$, current scheduling start time $x.start$, its expected finishing time $x.f$ without interrupting.

Steps:
1. Initialize empty $Q$. $x.f=0$.
2. Sort release time $r_i$ in increasing order. Keep a forward iterator $p$ as to which $r_i$ next to arrive.
3. Determine wether $x.f$ or next $r_i$ arrives first. 
- If $x$ finishes before next $r_i$, pop min $y$ from $Q$ and schedule $y$ from the time $x$ finishes. Assign $y.start=x.start+x.rem,y.f=y.start+y.rem$, then $x=y$.
- Otherwise $r_i$ arrives first. Forward $p$ by one. Add new released tasks into $Q$ with priority being task duration $p_i$. Let $y$ be min element in $Q$. Compare remaining time of $x$ and $y$. 
    - If $y.rem<x.rem-(r_i-x.start)$, pop $y$ from $Q$, $y$ prempties $x$, add $x$ back to $Q$ with $x.rem=x.rem-(r_i-x.start)$, assign $y.start=r_i,y.f=y.start+y.rem$, then $x=y$.


4. Pop rest tasks from $Q$ one by one and schedule.

**Prove:**
Scheduling is divided into segments. For any segment $i$, at its beginning time, assume it's not chosen by least remaining time, there must be segment $j$ with least remaing time. 
- If $j.rem$ at that moment is less than scheduling time of $i$, replace starting $j.rem$ length of slice of $i$ with $j$. Then  $c_i'\le \max(c_i,c_j)$, $c_j'<c_j,c_j'<c_i\Rightarrow c_i'+c_j'<c_i+c_j$.
- Otherwise swap $i$ with last scheduled pieces of $j$ combining to length of $i$. $c_j'=c_i<c_j,c_i'\le \max(c_i,c_j)\Rightarrow c_i'+c_j'\le c_i+c_j$.

Therefore greedy choice is safe.
