## 16-4 Scheduling variations

Consider the following algorithm for the problem from Section 16.5 of scheduling unit-time tasks with deadlines and penalties. Let all $n$ time slots be initially empty, where time slot $i$ is the unit-length slot of time that finishes at time $i$. We consider the tasks in order of monotonically decreasing penalty. When considering task $a_j$ if there exists at time slot at or before $a_j$’s deadline $d_j$ that is still empty, assign $a_j$ to the latest such slot. If there is no such slot, assign task $a_j$ to the latest of the as yet unfilled slots.

**Prove Optimal:**
Prove there exist optimal scheduling $S$ that assigns first $j$ tasks (in order of monotonically decreasing penalty) same as greedy algorithm does. $S$ schedules task $a_{j+1}$ at slot $x$ instaed of according to greedy strategy at slot $y\ne x$. We prove there exists optimal $S'$ that assigns first $j+1$ tasks same as greedy algorithm does.
When scheduling $a_{j+1}$, there could be three situations:
-  If there exists at time slot at or before $a_{j+1}$’s deadline $d_{j+1}$ that is still empty. 
    - If $x>y$. Then $x>d_{j+1}$. $(a_1)$
    - Else $x<y$. $(a_2)$
- Otherwise by greedy choice definition $d_{j+1}<x<y$. $(a_3)$

Assume in the future $S$ assigns $a_{k}$ at $y$.
- In case $a_1$. $p_k\le p_{j+1}$. Swap $a_k$ and $a_{j+1}$. Then $a_{j+1}$ becomes early from late. Because $p_{j+1}\ge p_k$, total lateness of $a_{j+1}$ and $a_k$ is smaller than or equal to before swap.
- In case $a_2$. Swap $a_k$ and $a_{j+1}$. Then both $a_k$ and $a_j$ are still early.
- In case $a_3$. Swap $a_k$ and $a_{j+1}$. $a_k$ moves earlier. $a_{j+1}$ is still late.

In all cases new schedule $S'$ does not increase total lateness. Therefore there exists optimal $S'$ that assigns first $j+1$ tasks same as greedy algorithm does.