### Offline Caching Problem ⭐⭐⭐

**furthest-in-future** strategy evicts the item in the cache whose next access in the request sequence comes furthest in the future.
Prove that furthest-in-future produces the minimum possible number of evictions.

**Definition:** A reduced eviction schedule only evicts when some item requested is not in cache.
**Theorem:** For any schedule, there always exists an reduced schedule that makes no more evictions.

**Proof:**
Prove by induction that there exists an optimal reduced scheduling that makes the same eviction choice for first $j$ requests as furthest-in-future strategy.

Assume an reduced scheduling $S$ that makes the same eviction choice for first $j$ requests as furthest-in-future strategy. Let constructs an $S'$ that makes furthest-in-future eviction choices for first $j+1$ requests. $S'$ evicts $e$ by $FF$ at request $j+1$ while $S$ evicts $f\ne e$.
 
Let $S'$ behave same as $S$ for following requests until one of following situations is encountered for the first time:
1. request for $f$.(request for $f$ must come before $e$)
    a. $S$ evicts $g=e$. $S'$ does nothing. $f$ is already in $S'$.
    b. $S$ evicts $g\ne e$. Let $S'$ evicts $g$ for $e$. (Now $S'$ is not reduced scheduling anymore. But there is always an reduction version $\bar S$ that still follows FF for first $j+1$ requests).
2. request for $h\ne f,e$ and $S$ evicts $e$.
    Let $S'$ evicts $f$. Then $S$ and $S'$ have the same cache. $S'$ has same number of cache misses as $S$.
For all cases, from then on let $S'$ behave same as $S$ for all future requests. It's possible because they have the same cache content.

Therefore the number of evictions of scheduling $S'$ is  equal to $S$. $S'$ is an optimal scheduling that makes the same eviction choice for first $j+1$ requests as furthest-in-future strategy.

We can build an optimal reduced greedy schedule by starting at any optimal reduced schedule $S^*$, contruct a schedule $S_1$ that agrees with $FF$ through first request. Then each step construct a new schedule $S_j,j=2,...,m$ that agrees with $FF$ through the first $j$ request, each one incurring no more evictions than the previous one. In the end $S_m=S_{FF}$.