a.
counting sort
b.
 1) use partition procedure and choose pivot 0
 2) after counting number of 0s and 1s. Overwriting input array with according number of 0s and 1s.（only works if records contain no other info than keys)
 
c.
selection sort
d.
only stable, linear time algorithm (a) can be chosen as basic sorting method for radix sort.
e.
Suppose that the $n$ records have keys in the range from 1 to $k$. Show how to modify counting sort so that it sorts the records in place in $\text{O}(n+k)$ time. You may use $\text{O}(k)$ storage outside the input array. Is your algorithm stable? 

**Solution:**
In counting sort, $C$ records the number of keys smaller than or equal to each particular item. Modify $C$ so that resulting $B$ knows the start position for each key $k$ if it exists:
$$
B[k]=C[k-1]+1.
$$
Range for each key $k$ then becomes
$$
[B[k],B[k+1]-1].
$$
Make $C=B$.
Going through items $A[i]$ in input array, in the meantime maintain a pointer to the range so that $B[k]\le i\le C[k]$. If $A[i]\neq k$, swap $A[i]$ with $C[k]$ and increase $C[k]$ by one, until $A[i]=k$.
```C++
InplaceSort1Tok(A,k,n):
    // make C[1..k] = 0
    // make B[1..k] = 0
    for a in A:
        C[a] = C[a] + 1
    for i = 2 to k:
        C[i] = C[i] + C[i-1]
    for i = 2 to k:
        B[i] = C[i-1] + 1
    B[1] = 1
    C = B
    j = 1
    key = 1
    while i <= n:
        if A[i] != key:
            swap A[i] with A[C[key]]
            C[key] = C[key] + 1
            continue
        { // B[j] <= i <= B[j+1]-1
        i ++ 
        if i <= n and i > B[j+1]-1:
            j = j + 1
            key = B[j]
        }
```
**Correctness:**
    The description of the algorithm states its correctness. While iterating thought $A$, we make sure each item is of the key expected before move forward.
    The algorithm is in place but not stable.
**Complexity:**
    Three loops from line 26 to line 31 takes $\text{O}(n+k)=\text{O}(n)$ time.
    To examine running time for while loop starting from line 36, notice each line 38 basic swap operation puts a record at its right position and therefore it can be executed at most $n$ times, which is also the number of times line 37 evaluates to be false. 
    Block line 41 to line 46 will be runned exactly $n$ times which is the number of times line 37 evaluates to be true. Together, algorithm takes $\text{O}(n)$ linear time.