a. You are given an array of integers, where different integers may have different numbers of digits, but the total number of digits over all the integers in the array is $n$. Show how to sort the array in $\text{O}(n)$ time.

**Solution:**
First note that we can compute number of digits $d_x$ of each integer $x$ in $\text{O}(1)$ time:
$$
d_x = \lfloor \log_{10}(x)\rfloor+1
$$
Then, throw integers into $n$ buckets according to their lengths. Going through the array should take time $\Theta(n)$.
Radix sort uniform-length integers in each bucket, which should take total time
$$
\sum_{i=1}^{n}\Theta(i\cdot c_i)=\Theta(n),
$$
where $c_i$ is the number of $i$-digits integers.
Finally concatenating the sorted lists of all buckets runs in $\Theta(n)$.
Together, we sort array of integers in $\text{O}(n)$ time.

b.
You are given an array of strings, where different strings may have different numbers of characters, but the total number of characters over all the strings is $n$. Show how to sort the strings in $\text{O}(n)$ time.

**Solution:**
(Note that the desired order here is the standard alphabetical order; for example, $a<ab<b$.)

Proposed algorithm: put strings into $n$ buckets according to their lengths. Going through buckets backwards, sort strings in $i$-th bucket on character $i$, then append them at the back of bucket $i-1$, and repeat.

```C++
sortVariableLengthStrings(A,n):
    make length-n array C of empty list
    for str in A:
        C[str.length].append(str)
    for i = n to 1:
        counting sort C[i] on i-th character
        if i > 1:
            C[i-1].append(C[i])
    return C[1]
```
**Loop Invariant:**
At the start of each loop, if we imagine every string with padding null characters to the same length $n$, they are sorted w.r.t. the least significant $n-i$ characters;
All strings containing character $i$ are retained in $i$-th bucket $C[i]$

Init: Trivially satisfied.
Maintainance: Every string without $i$-th character are within buckets $C[1],..,C[i-1]$, and are smaller than every string that has a $i$-th character in $C[i]$ regarding to digits $i$ to $n$. After sorting $C[i]$ on $i$-th digit, all items are sorted w.r.t. the least significant $n-i+1$ digits. By moving them into $C[i-1]$, all strings containing character $i-1$ are retained in $C[i-1]$. Increace $i$ and invariant is restored.
Exit: $i=0$, strings are sorted w.r.t. all $n$ possible digits, and are retained in C[1].

**Complexity:**
Throw strings in buckets takes no more than $\text{O}(n)$ time. Loop is executed $n$ times, and each time complexity for Line 29 can be counted using number of $i$-th characters in all strings. Combined, it's the total number of characters over all the strings $n$. Therefore algorithm takes $\text{O}(n)$ time to run.