### 8.2-2
Assume $k=A[i]=A[j],i < j$.By lopping A backwards, algorithm first put $A[j] $ at position $C[k]$ in $B$. Then $C[k]$ gets decreased. So Later when algorithm trys to put $A[i]$ at position $C[k]$ of $B$, it is earlier position than $A[j]$. Therefore counting sort is stable.

### 8.2-4
Use the first part of counting sort where it outputs an array $C$ such that $C[i]$ equal the number of elements smaller than or equal to $i$. Then the query how many elements fall into the range $[a,b]$ can be easily answered with $C[b]-C[a-1]$.

### 8.3-2
a.
stable sorting includes: insertion sort, selection sort, merge sort.
qucik sort and heap sort and BST sort are not stable.
b.
I propose preprocessing input array $A$ by trailing each item with additional position information $i$ indicating the $i$-th item in input array. The trailing $i$ is effectively the "most-insignificant-digit". Then two originally same-keyed item $A[i]=A[j]=k$ now are sorted by their ordering in $A$. This preprocessing would entail the additional space to store position info and constant factor increase in asympototic running time due to the extra comparision or one-more-digit round of counting sort performed.

### 8.3-3 Prove Radix Sort works
Loop Invariant: At the beginning of each round's sorting on digit $i$, array $A$ is sorted from the perspective of lowest $i-1$ digits $1,..,i-1$.
Init: Trivially satisfied.
Each Round: By stable sorting on digit $i$, 
    * elements with different key will be in correct relative order with respect to lowest $i$ digits. 
    * Any two elements $a$ and $b$ with the same digit $i$ will be in relative order same as before this round of stable sort. Since former rounds of sorting ensures they are sorted according to digits $1,..i-1$, $a$ and $b$ are still sorted from the perspective of lowest $i$ digits$.
Exit: $i=d+1$, array $A$ is sorted from the perspective of all $d$ digits.

### 8.3-4
Each integer has 3 digits based on radix $n$ (Fill lefter digit with 0 if not enough 3 digits). Use counting sort on each digit srating with the most insignificant digit. Because each digit has n possible values, every round of counting sort takes $\text{O}(n+n)=\text{O}(n)$ time. Total 3 rounds makes $3\text{O}(n)=\text{O}(n)$ time.

### 8.4-4
Because $p_i$ s independently satisfy uniform distribution in 2-D circle, it may seem that they are also uniformly distributed along radius. In fact the probability density of $p_i$ landing at radius $d_i=a$ is proportional to $d_i$ itself. That is points are more likely to land at larger distance from center of circle than smaller distance.

$$
\mathbf{Pr}\{d_i \le x\}=\pi x^2
$$

By equally dividing the probability distribution of random variable $d_i$ into $n$ buckets $[x_i,x_{i+1}],i\le n-1$, points will fall into each bucket with same probability. Therefore each bucket is expected not to have too much elements and we can do bucket sort.

$$
\begin{aligned}
\pi x_i^2 &=\frac{i}{n},\quad i=0,1,...,n
\\x_i&=\sqrt{\frac{i}{n}}
\end{aligned}
$$

### 8.4-5
Derive $n$ buckets $[x_i,x_{i+1}),i=0,...,n-1$ with equal probability $\frac{1}{n}$.

$$
\frac{i}{n}=P(x_i)
$$